Career development is not linear, and everyone's journey is different. The questions below can help you identify where you are in the process, 
and determine which action steps will help you move forward this semester. As an added bonus, those indicated with a✓ might 
fulfill a Compass, Passport, or Connect requirement. See our website (www.sandiego.edu/careers) for the resources and events listed below. 
KNOW YOURSELF 
What are my interests, talents, and skills? 
What major should I choose and what can I do with it? 
How do I pick a career that fits my priorities and values? 
How do I highlight my experience on a resume? 
People 
• Meet with a career counselor to learn how the Career
Development Center can help you.
• Talk to LLC faculty and upper division students about 
majors, study abroad and careers. 
Events 
✓ Attend the Majors & Minors Fair in November to talk
to faculty and upper-division students about majors
and minors.
Resources 
• Complete the Majors & Minors Game card sort. 
• Research potential majors and occupations using the 
Occupational Outlook Handbook and What Can I Do 
With This Major? on the CDev website.
• Take a career assessment like TypeFocus or 
CliftonStrengths to gain a better understanding of 
your interests, strengths, and personality type.
• Review course requirements for different majors in 
the online Undergraduate Course Catalog. 
Experience 
• Try a variety of courses to determine what areas
interest you and spark your enthusiasm.
• Get involved in clubs and organizations on campus.
Meet with a Peer SAi Consultant to learn more. 
www.sandiego.edu/student-leadership 
Job and Internship Preparation 
• Build a resume and have it reviewed; look at samples
in our Torero Career Guide.
• Log into Handshake, create your profile, and search
for summer jobs and internships.
EXPLORE CAREERS 
I like several career options; how do I choose? 
How do I find salary and job outlook information? 
How do I get experience? 
Do I need to go to graduate school? 
People 
• Conduct informational intetviews with professionals 
in a field of interest.
• Explore academic research opportunities with faculty
members and the Office of Undergraduate Research. 
• Explore graduate school options by researching 
programs online and talking with the pre-health or
pre-law advisor, or faculty. 
Events 
✓ Attend CDev workshops and panels. 
✓ Attend a career or graduate school fair. 
• Attend Creative Collaborations Undergraduate
Research Conference in the spring to see student
research projects. 
Resources 
• Search O*NET Online and USD's Student Outcome
data for job outlooks and salaries.
• Watch the informational intetviews on Road Trip
Nation.
Experience 
• Gain leadership and teamwork skills through further
involvement in student organizations. 
I Volunteer through the Mulvaney Center or University 
Ministry. 
Job and Internship Preparation 
• Create or update your Linkedln, T.E.A.M., and 
Handshake profiles. 
• Search for part-time jobs or summer internships in
your field on Handshake.
TAKE ACTION 
What is the best way to find an internship or job? 
How do I break into this field? 
How do I learn to network and make contacts? 
How can I stand out in interviews? 
People 
• Use T.E.A.M. to connect with alumni and get 
career advice.
Events 
✓ Attend a Torero Trek to visit employers on site.
✓ Develop intetviewing skills at a workshop or 
through a mock intetview.
✓ Attend alumni panels, employer information sessions,
or other networking events. 
✓ Attend a career or graduate school fair. 
• Join a professional association in your career field
and attend events or conferences.
Resources 
• Practice intetviewing using IntetviewStream, our
online video mock intetviewing platform. 
• Apply for internship funding through the Career
Development Center. 
• Visit our Pinterest page as you prepare your 
professional outfit to wear to networking events 
and interviews.
Experience 
✓ Complete an internship or research.
• Participate in on-campus intetviews.
Job and Internship Preparation 
• Update and tailor your resume, cover letters and 
graduate school essays. 
• Practice your 30-second "elevator pitch." 
• Search for internships and jobs on Handshake and 
Career Shift. 
• Apply to setvice programs or graduate school. 
CAREER DEVELOPMENT CENTER• (619) 260-4654 • CAREERS@SANDIEGO.EDU 
